Good Afternoon,

 

Thank you for your submission. Regretfully, your entry to the Simple Extensible Sampling Tool Challenge did not pass all of the finalist tests. With that said, it did pass many of the checks performed. I hope you consider resolving the below issues and resubmitting the entry.

 

1.       The tab order was not always logical. This is part of the 508 compliance test.

2.       The text associated with the program controls does not always appear to be readable by accessibility software.  You can see the limitations if you run Microsoft Narrator (see the accessibility features in windows) and try to use the software.

3.       It was not clear how to get out of the preview and report areas using the keyboard. This pertains to the requirement that the software must be navigable using a keyboard.

4.       Some portions of the source code did not have sufficient commenting to understand the general purpose of the code. Detailed commenting is not necessary, especially if the code is self-explanatory in relation to other functions that have been commented. If you believe commenting is not necessary for a portion of the code then include a note explaining this point in the submission description file.

5.       The following issues were identified with the unrestricted attribute appraisal module

a.       Changing the universe size applies the restriction on the sample size text box without waiting for the users to leave the cell. As a result, if a user first enters the sample size and then the universe size, the sample size is set to the first digit typed in the universe size text box (the same goes for the COI box).

6.       The following issues were identified in the combined unrestricted variable appraisal module

a.       The numbers in the preview box are not always correct. For example it might display 0.199999999 when the input was .2.

b.      The module does not output the kurtosis.

c.       When the point estimate is negative the precision is not calculated in a meaningful way (I believe RAT-STATS sets it to zero in this case)

d.      There were several cases where the standard error total was off by .01. I did not identify any cases where the point estimate or confidence intervals were off.

e.      RAT-STATS allows for space delimited text files (with consecutive spaces treated as a single delimiter). The present entry only allows for comma delimited text files. This difference must be resolved or explained more directly in the difference explanation file.

7.       The following issues were identified in the stratified variable appraisal module

a.       The output did not include strata labels (e.g., Stratum 1, Stratum 2, Stratum 3) to identify which output is associated with each stratum.

b.      Program converted the entry 19x5 in the universe cell to 19. It was able to identify characters in the sample results data.

c.       Issue with the calculation of precision in a case with one zero response in one stratum (the issue was for the individual stratum precision not the overall precision).

d.      RAT-STATS allows for space delimited text files (with consecutive spaces treated as a single delimiter). The present entry only allows for comma delimited text files. This difference must be resolved or explained more directly in the difference explanation file.co

8.       The following issues were identified with the simple random sample module

a.       The “Spares” and “Random” labels are currently incorrect.  This can be fixed by changing “Random” to “Spares” and “Spares” to “Original Sample” (or similar term). As an explanation, the spares are in random order because the user may not review them all. The original sample is in sequential order for convenience. The fact that the original sample is not in random order does not cause issues because the user reviews them all.

b.      Software freezes when more samples are pulled than items in the universe (should throw and error rather than crashing or freezing).

c.       The module rounds the seed in the output to two digits after the decimal. This works for seeds generated by the program because the lower digit is truncated when the see is used. The approach; however, doesn’t work with smaller numbers when there are more than two digits after the decimal.

 

Below are a few additional differences from RAT-STATS that do not constitute errors given the specification document and the referenced RAT-STATS User Manual and Companion Manual:

1.       The variable appraisal modules are unable to import*.xls files.

2.       The software output the variable appraisals across multiple files.

3.       In some but not all modules the software appends the audit name to the file name.

4.       The windows of the software in some cases can be undocked and closed.

 

If you have any questions or concerns, just let me know.

 

Regards,

Jared

 

Jared Smith, PhD,

Director, Quantitative Methods

HHS OIG/OAS

202-205-9119